Question 1: How does ASP.NET Core relate to console applications? 

a. ASP.NET Core and console applications are entirely separate and unrelated. 

b. Console applications are built on top of ASP.NET Core. 

c. ASP.NET Core is an additional layer on top of console applications for converting them into web applications. 

d. Console applications are a prerequisite for using ASP.NET Core.

Question 2: Which of the following middleware is required to serve the CSS and image files from the wwwroot folder? 

a. exception handler middleware 

b. routing middleware 

c. static-file middleware 

d. endpoint middleware

Question 3: Which IActionResult type would you use to generate an HTML view for a given Razor view when using MVC controllers? 

a. PageResult 

b. ViewResult 

c. RedirectToPageResult 

d. RedirectResult

4: Consider the code in a Razor page:
public class CategoryModel : PageModel
{
    private readonly CategoryService _service;
    public CategoryModel(CategoryService service)
    {
        _service = service;
    }

    public ActionResult OnGet(string category)
    {
        Items = _service.GetItemsForCategory(category);
        return Page();
    }

    public List Items { get; set; }
}



Which of the following is the page handler? 

a. OnGet(string category) 

b. CategoryModel(CategoryService service) 

c. List Items { get; set; } 

d. return Page()

5. In which scenario is it recommended to use MVC Controllers instead of Razor Pages? 

a. When building page-based server-side rendered applications. 

b. When developing a mobile application. 

c. When rendering views is not required, such as for a Web API. 

d. When transitioning from an existing Razor Pages application.

Question 6

What is middleware in ASP.NET Core? 


a. Middleware are components that capture user requests and data and forward them to the ASP.NET Core web server. 


b. Middleware are C# classes or functions that handle an HTTP request or response. 


c. Middleware are C# classes or functions that handle business logic. 


d. Middleware are C# classes or functions that handle an async request or response.

7. What is the process of controlling what a user can do based on their identity? 

a. Authentication 

b. Authorization 

c. Filtering 

d. Protection

9. Which platform does ASP.NET Core primarily run on? 

a. .NET Framework 

b. .NET Core only 

c. .NET 5.0 only 

d. .NET 5.0 with the Windows Compatibility Pack

10. Which approach is used for authenticating APIs and distributed applications? 

a. External authentication (Facebook or Google) 

b. Identity provider 

c. Forms authentication 

d. Windows authentication
Question 11

If a request reaches the end of the middleware pipeline without being handled, what will be returned? 


a. 404 status code.


b. 500 status code.

c. A plain text response body indicating the type and name of the response.


d. A generic error page.

12. What is the main responsibility of the Startup class in an ASP.NET Core application? 

a. Handling HTTP requests. 

b. Managing database connections. 

c. Configuring service registration and middleware. 

d. Generating HTML templates.

13. What should you use to prevent anonymous users from accessing a page or action? 

a. AllowAnonymous(false) attribute 

b. [Authorize] attribute 

c. [Route] attribute 
d. Global Authorization filter

14. When might it be easier to achieve partial page updates using MVC controllers instead of Razor Pages? 

a. When developing a single-page application (SPA) 

b. When using Web Forms for server-side rendering 

c. When building page-based server-side rendered applications 

d. When doing a lot of partial page updates with JavaScript

15. Which command publishes an ASP.NET Core application with a release configuration? 

a. dotnet publish --output publish 

b. dotnet build --output publish --configuration Release 

c. dotnet deploy --output publish --configuration Release 

d. dotnet run --output publish --configuration Release
16. Which of the following is NOT true about ASP.NET Core? 

a. It is a cross-platform, open-source web application framework for building dynamic, server-side rendered applications 

b. It has built-in support to create HTTP APIs for mobile, browser-based SPAs, or other backend applications 

c. It can be used to create native mobile applications that run on Android and iOS platforms 

d. It provides structure, helper functions, and a framework for building applications
17. Which type of project is specifically used to build server-side rendered "page-based" websites? 

a. ASP.NET Core Razor Pages 

b. ASP.NET Core MVC 

c. ASP.NET Core Web API 

d. Windows Form Core
18. How does composing multiple middleware components benefit ASP.NET Core applications? 

a. It increases application complexity 

b. It decreases application flexibility 

c. It allows for the creation of complex application behaviors from small, focused components 

d. It reduces the number of components required
19. Which of the following tasks cannot be performed within middleware? 

a. Handling the request and generating a response 

b. Logging each request 

c. Adding standard security headers to the response 

d. Associating a request with the relevant set
20. What is middleware in the context of ASP.NET Core? 

a. A piece of hardware used for network communication 

b. A software component responsible for generating HTML pages 

c. C# classes that handle HTTP requests or responses 

d. A type of database management system

21. What does "middleware configuration" refer to within the Startup class? 

a. Configuring authentication and authorization policies 

b. Registering service dependencies 

c. Handling and responding to HTTP requests 

d. Configuring database connections
22. To what level of scope can a filter be applied? 

a. The action method 

b. The controller 

c. Globally 

d. All of the above

23. Which version of ASP.NET Core introduced the Razor Pages programming model? 

a. ASP.NET Core 1.0 

b. ASP.NET Core 2.0 

c. ASP.NET Core 3.0 

d. ASP.NET Core 4.0

24. Where is service registration typically configured in the Startup class? 

a. In the ConfigureServices method 

b. In the ConfigureEndpoints method 

c. In the Configure method 

d. In the ConfigureMiddleware method
25. Which file controls how Visual Studio runs and debugs the application? 

a. .sln file 

b. .csproj file 

c. appsettings.json 

d. launchSettings.json